TX(1)                       General Commands Manual                      TX(1)

NAME
     tx – TexOps CLI to build LaTeX documents in the cloud

SYNOPSIS
     tx login [--no-browser] [--timeout duration]
     tx init [--texlive version] [--compiler name] [--main file]
     tx build [--live] [--no-cache] [--log=terminal | file] [name ...]
     tx status
     tx token create [--name name] [--expires-in duration] [--no-expiry]
        [name]
     tx token list
     tx token delete [-y | --yes] [name]
     tx version
     tx --version

DESCRIPTION
     tx is the command-line client for TexOps, a cloud service that compiles
     LaTeX documents.  It uploads project files, triggers remote builds, and
     downloads the resulting PDFs.  Both interactive use on a developer
     workstation and headless use in CI pipelines and coding agents are
     supported.

     tx never prompts unless both stdin and stdout are a TTY.  Without a
     terminal it uses a default, or fails when there is no safe default:
     usually with exit 2 for missing input, or 4 for tx build without
     .texops.yaml.  The one exception is the selection list of tx token delete
     --yes without a name, which needs only stdout to be a TTY.  tx --help
     gives an overview, and tx command --help describes a command with
     examples.

OPTIONS
     These options work with every command, before or after the command name.

     --json  Print exactly one JSON document to standard output, also on
             failure, and nothing else.  Progress, the build log and error
             messages go to standard error as plain lines.  See JSON OUTPUT.

     -h, --help
             Show help for tx or for the command and exit 0.

GETTING STARTED
     1.   Authenticate with the TexOps service:

                $ tx login

     2.   Inside a LaTeX project directory, create a .texops.yaml
          configuration file and commit it to version control:

                $ tx init

     3.   Build the project:

                $ tx build

     For CI pipelines, commit .texops.yaml to the repository and set the
     TX_API_TOKEN environment variable instead of running login.

COMMANDS
   login
     Authenticate with the TexOps service using the device code flow.  Prints
     ‘Open <verification URL> and enter code <CODE>’ to stderr, then opens the
     URL in a browser when possible, with the code already filled in.  After
     authorization completes in the browser, the session JWT is stored
     locally.  A person has to approve the login, so CI pipelines and coding
     agents should set TX_API_TOKEN instead.

     --no-browser
             Print the URL and code without opening a browser.

     --timeout duration
             How long to wait for authorization, as a Go duration such as
             ‘2m’.  Defaults to the lifetime of the login code.  When it runs
             out, or the code expires first, tx exits 1.

     Commands that need credentials exit 3 when there are none.  When the
     stored session has expired, the message names the date it expired.

   init
     Create a .texops.yaml configuration file in the current directory.
     Recursively discovers .tex files containing ‘\documentclass’.  In
     interactive mode, discovered documents are presented for selection.  In
     non-interactive mode, all discovered documents are included
     automatically.

     The supported TeX Live versions are fetched from the service; when it
     cannot be reached, a built-in list is used.  The interactive prompts for
     TeX Live version, compiler, and documents require both stdin and stdout
     to be a TTY.  When either is not a TTY, the defaults are used: the newest
     TeX Live version, pdflatex as the compiler, and all discovered documents.

     Flags:

     --texlive version
             TeX Live distribution version (e.g. "2025").  Skips the
             interactive version prompt.  Must be a version the service
             supports; otherwise tx exits 2, lists the supported versions and
             writes nothing.

     --compiler name
             LaTeX compiler.  Must be one of: pdflatex, xelatex, lualatex,
             latex, platex, uplatex.  Skips the interactive compiler prompt.

     --main file
             Used as the main TeX file only when recursive discovery finds no
             documents (i.e. no .tex files containing ‘\documentclass’).  This
             flag does not override discovered documents; it is only used as a
             fallback.  Defaults to main.tex.

   build
     Build one or more documents defined in .texops.yaml.  Positional
     arguments select documents by name; when none are given, all documents
     are built.  On success, each built PDF is downloaded to the local output
     path defined in .texops.yaml.

     If .texops.yaml does not exist and both stdin and stdout are a TTY, an
     interactive prompt offers to run init first.  Otherwise the build fails
     with exit status 4.

     Flags:

     --log=terminal | file
             Where the LaTeX log goes.  terminal streams it to standard error
             while the document compiles and saves nothing.  file streams
             nothing and saves the full log to .texops/logs/<doc>.log after
             each build; a failed build also prints the last 20 lines of the
             log.  Defaults to file under a coding agent (see TX_AGENT) or
             with --json, and to terminal otherwise.

     --live  Watch for file changes and rebuild automatically.  After the
             initial build, the command monitors the project directory for
             modifications and triggers a rebuild approximately 500ms after
             the last change.  Rapid successive saves are coalesced into a
             single rebuild.  Output PDFs are rewritten in place (preserving
             the file inode) so that PDF viewers such as Preview.app and Skim
             auto-refresh without reopening the file.  Press Ctrl+C to stop
             watching and exit.  Because it runs until interrupted, --live is
             meant for people, not for scripts or coding agents.  It cannot be
             combined with --json (exit 2).

     --no-cache
             Rebuild without using the remote build cache.

     At the end of every build, tx prints a block per document with the errors
     and warnings the service found, one per line as ‘file:line: severity:
     message’, for example:

           paper: FAILED, 1 error, 1 warning (log: .texops/logs/paper.log)
             sec/intro.tex:3: error: Undefined control sequence.
             sec/intro.tex:1: warning: Citation `missing' undefined

     File paths are relative to the project root.  Parts the service could not
     determine are left out, and the log part appears only when the log was
     saved.  Successful documents list their warnings too.

   status
     Show authentication status including email (when available),
     authentication method, and token expiry.  Exits 3 when not authenticated
     or when the session or token has expired or was rejected (see EXIT
     STATUS).  When the rejected credential came from TX_API_TOKEN, the
     message names the variable, since tx login alone does not help while it
     is set.

   token create
     Create a new API token for use in CI pipelines or other non-interactive
     environments.  The token value is displayed once and cannot be retrieved
     again.  The name can be given as an argument or with --name; two
     different names are a usage error.

     Flags:

     --name name
             Name for the token, the same as the name argument.  Required in
             non-interactive mode; prompted interactively otherwise.

     --expires-in duration
             Token expiry duration.  A positive integer followed by ‘d’ (days)
             or ‘y’ (years); maximum 10 years.  For example: ‘30d’, ‘90d’,
             ‘1y’.  Mutually exclusive with --no-expiry.  One of --expires-in
             or --no-expiry is required in non-interactive mode.

     --no-expiry
             Create a token that does not expire.  Mutually exclusive with
             --expires-in.

   token list
     List all API tokens with their name, prefix, expiry, last-used date, and
     creation date.

   token delete
     Delete an API token.  When a name argument is given, the matching token
     is deleted after confirmation.  Confirmation requires both stdin and
     stdout to be a TTY; without one, or with --json, the command exits 2 and
     deletes nothing unless --yes is given.  When no argument is given, stdout
     is a TTY, and either stdin is a TTY or --yes is given, an interactive
     selection list is presented; if there are no tokens, a message is shown
     instead.  In non-interactive mode, a token name argument is required.

     Flags:

     -y, --yes
             Delete without asking for confirmation, also on a terminal.

   version
     Print the tx version and exit.  The same output is available via tx
     --version.

JSON OUTPUT
     With --json, standard output carries exactly one JSON document followed
     by a newline, whatever the outcome; the exit status is the same as
     without it.  When a command fails before it has a result, the document is
     an error:

           {"error": {"code": "usage", "message": "..."}}

     ‘code’ is one of ‘internal’, ‘network’, ‘timeout’, ‘usage’,
     ‘not_authenticated’, ‘config’ or ‘build_failed’ (see EXIT STATUS);
     ‘message’ is the message printed to standard error.

     A build that ran prints a build document, also when documents failed:

           {
             "ok": false,
             "duration_ms": 4210,
             "documents": [{
               "name": "paper", "main": "paper.tex",
               "status": "failed", "reason": "latex_error",
               "output": null, "log": ".texops/logs/paper.log",
               "build_id": "bld_8f3k2", "duration_ms": 3120,
               "errors": [{"severity": "error", "file": "sec/intro.tex",
                           "line": 3, "message": "Undefined control sequence.",
                           "context": "\\badmacro"}],
               "warnings": [],
               "truncated": false
             }]
           }

     ok      True when every document built.

     status  ‘succeeded’ or ‘failed’.

     reason  Why the document failed, null on success: ‘latex_error’ or
             ‘no_pdf’ (the document did not compile), ‘timeout’, ‘internal’,
             ‘network’, ‘auth’, ‘sync’ or ‘config’.

     output  PDF path relative to the project root, null on failure.

     log     Path of the saved log, or null.

     errors, warnings
             Diagnostics with severity, message and, when known, file, line,
             kind (warnings: ‘undefined_citation’, ‘undefined_reference’,
             ‘duplicate_label’, ‘rerun’) and context (errors: the source text
             TeX showed).

     truncated
             True when the service found more diagnostics than it sent.

     The other commands print:

     status  authenticated, email, method (‘jwt’ or ‘api_token’), source
             (‘env’, ‘file’ or ‘keyring’) and expires_at (RFC 3339 or null).
             When not authenticated, only authenticated is printed, as false,
             and the exit status is 3.

     init    config, texlive, compiler and documents (each with name, main
             and, when set, directory).

     login   authenticated.

     token list
             An array of objects with name, prefix, expires_at, last_used_at
             and created_at (RFC 3339 or null).

     token create
             name, token and expires_at.

     token delete
             deleted, the name of the deleted token.

CODING AGENTS
     Coding agents should authenticate with TX_API_TOKEN, or ask the user to
     run tx login in a terminal, and then loop: run tx build --json, read the
     errors of each failed document, fix the sources and build again.  Exit
     status 5 means LaTeX errors; 1 is a service failure that editing the
     sources will not fix.  Agents should not use --live, and should delete
     tokens only with --yes when asked to.

     tx detects a coding agent from the environment (see ENVIRONMENT) and then
     saves build logs to .texops/logs/ instead of streaming them.

CONFIGURATION
     The project configuration file .texops.yaml is created by tx init with a
     minimal set of keys: project_key, texlive, compiler, and a documents list
     where each entry has name and main.  Additional keys described below are
     optional and can be added manually.

   Top-level keys
     project_key
             Unique identifier for the project.  Generated automatically by tx
             init.  If omitted, tx build generates one and writes it back to
             .texops.yaml once the project has been created.

     texlive
             (required) TeX Live distribution version (e.g. "2025").  Must be
             a non-empty string.  Not validated against a fixed set of
             versions.

     compiler
             LaTeX compiler.  Must be one of: pdflatex, xelatex, lualatex,
             latex, platex, uplatex.  Defaults to pdflatex if omitted.

     api_url
             Override the API endpoint URL.

     documents
             (required) A non-empty list of document definitions.

   Document keys
     name    (required) Unique identifier for the document.

     main    (required) Path to the main TeX file, relative to directory (or
             the project root if directory is not set).  Must not escape the
             project root.

     directory
             Subdirectory containing the document sources.  When set, the
             build runs relative to this directory.

     output  Output PDF path.  Defaults to main with a .pdf extension.  For
             example, if directory is sub and main is doc.tex, the default
             output path is sub/doc.pdf.  Must not escape the project root.

     compiler
             Per-document compiler override.

     texlive
             Per-document TeX Live version override.

   Validation rules
     •   texlive is required and must be a non-empty string.

     •   documents is required and must be a non-empty list of mappings.

     •   Each document requires a unique name and a non-empty main.

     •   main, directory, and output must not escape the project root.

     •   Document-level compiler and texlive override the top-level values.

     •   Configs with a top-level main key (old format) are rejected with a
         migration hint.

   Example configuration
           project_key: "aBcDeFgHiJkLmNoPqRsT12"
           texlive: "2025"
           compiler: "xelatex"

           documents:
             - name: "paper"
               main: "paper.tex"
             - name: "appendix"
               main: "main.tex"
               directory: "appendix"
               output: "appendix.pdf"
               compiler: "lualatex"
               texlive: "2019"

AUTHENTICATION
     tx looks up credentials in the following order:

     1.   The TX_API_TOKEN environment variable.

     2.   A JWT in the credentials file.

     3.   A JWT in the system keyring.

     tx login stores the session JWT in the system keyring.  If the keyring is
     unavailable, the credentials file is used as a fallback.

     The credentials file is a YAML file with a single key:

     jwt     The session JWT obtained by tx login.

     The file is created with mode 0600 inside a directory with mode 0700.

     For CI pipelines, create an API token with tx token create and set it as
     TX_API_TOKEN.

FILE UPLOADS
     •   .git/, .texops/, .texops.yaml, and .txignore are always excluded from
         uploads.

     •   Only the project-root .gitignore is loaded; nested .gitignore files
         are not used.

     •   .txignore files can exist in nested directories with local scope;
         negation patterns are supported.

     •   Only files the server reports as missing are uploaded, using hash-
         based comparison.

     •   Missing files are uploaded in batches of at most 32 MiB of file data;
         a larger file is uploaded on its own.

ENVIRONMENT
     TX_API_TOKEN
             API token for authentication.  Takes priority over all other
             credential sources.

     TX_API_URL
             Override the API endpoint URL.  Takes priority over the api_url
             configuration key.

     TX_AGENT
             Set to ‘none’ to turn off coding agent detection.

     AI_AGENT, CLAUDECODE, CODEX_THREAD_ID, CURSOR_AGENT, GEMINI_CLI
             Set by coding agents.  When one is present and TX_AGENT is not
             ‘none’, build defaults to --log=file, and requests name the agent
             in the User-Agent header.

     XDG_CONFIG_HOME
             When set to an absolute path, the credentials file is stored at
             $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/texops/credentials.yaml.  Relative values are
             ignored.

FILES
     .texops.yaml
             Project configuration file in the current directory.

     .txignore
             File exclusion patterns, similar to .gitignore.  Can appear in
             any project subdirectory.

     .texops/logs/<doc>.log
             Full LaTeX log of the last build of a document, saved with
             --log=file.

     .texops/.gitignore
             Created with the first saved log; contains ‘*’ so that Git
             ignores .texops/.

     $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/texops/credentials.yaml
             Credentials file when XDG_CONFIG_HOME is set to an absolute path.

     $HOME/.config/texops/credentials.yaml
             Default credentials file location.

EXIT STATUS
     Results (the build summary, status fields, the token list table and the
     token printed by token create) are written to standard output.  Progress,
     the streamed build log and error messages are written to standard error;
     each error is printed once.  With --json, standard output carries only
     the JSON document, whose ‘error.code’ for each status is given in
     parentheses.

     0       Success, including help and version output.

     1       Service or unexpected failure: network errors, server errors,
             sync or upload failures, or a build that hit the time limit or
             failed inside the service (‘internal’, ‘network’, ‘timeout’).

     2       Usage error: no command (tx alone prints the help to standard
             error), unknown command, missing subcommand or unknown flag, bad
             flag value (including an unsupported --texlive or --compiler),
             unknown document name, --json with --live, missing required input
             when there is no terminal to prompt on, or token delete without
             --yes when there is no terminal to confirm on (‘usage’).

     3       Not authenticated, or the session or API token has expired or was
             rejected (‘not_authenticated’).

     4       Project configuration error: .texops.yaml is missing or invalid,
             or its TeX Live version is not supported (‘config’).

     5       A document failed to compile: LaTeX errors, or no PDF was
             produced (‘build_failed’).

     When several documents fail for different reasons, build exits with the
     most severe code: 1 if any failure was a service failure, otherwise 3 for
     an authentication failure, then 4 for a configuration failure.  It exits
     5 only when every failure is a compile failure.

EXAMPLES
     Build a specific document:

           $ tx build paper

     Build every document and print the result as JSON:

           $ tx build --json

     Watch for changes and rebuild automatically:

           $ tx build --live

     Rebuild from scratch without cache:

           $ tx build --no-cache

     Create an API token for CI:

           $ tx token create --name ci-main --expires-in 90d

     CI pipeline snippet (assumes .texops.yaml is committed):

           export TX_API_TOKEN="$TEXOPS_TOKEN"
           tx build

     Multi-document configuration and build:

           # .texops.yaml
           project_key: "aBcDeFgHiJkLmNoPqRsT12"
           texlive: "2025"
           compiler: "pdflatex"

           documents:
             - name: "thesis"
               main: "thesis.tex"
             - name: "slides"
               main: "slides.tex"
               directory: "presentation"
               compiler: "xelatex"

           $ tx build thesis slides

SEE ALSO
     gitignore(5)

TexOps                                                                  TexOps
